# README

This folder contains the stimuli, data, and code used to generate the
figures and the run the statistical models used to answer the research
questions.

You're most likely here because you want to use the data collected in
the study. For that, see the codebook section, and the
`data/normalized_clustering_trials` folder for the JSON files.

## Data

* `data`: Contains the data collected from each participant in the `normalized_clustering_trials` folder. See the codebook below. The other files are processed versions of the `normalized_clustering_trials`.
* `build`: Contains files generated by the visualization scripts

## Codebook for a clustering trial

Each JSON file is the data for a participant. The file is an array of
clustering trials. A clustering trial is an object with these
properties.

* `startTimestamp`: timestamp (ms) when they saw the stimulus
* `endTimestamp`: timestamp (ms) when they finished clustering the stimulus
* `base_uuid`: An ID for the stimulus (invariant to flipping horizontally or vertically)
* `unique_uuid`: An ID, sensitive to flipped (flipping a stimulus gives it a new unique_uuid)
* `group`: Cluster structure, can be 'disperse' or 'clustered'
* `number_of_points`: The number of points
* `clusters`: Information about the clusters

There are some other properties too.

The `clusters` value is an array, where each object is a cluster. A cluster object has these properties:

* `edgePoints`: Data for the outer boundary that a participant drew.
* `points`: The points in this cluster.
* `startTime`: timestamp (ms) when they started drawing a cluster
* `endTime`: timestamp (ms) when they finished drawing a cluster

If you want to get the points in a stimulus, I would extract and concatenate the points from each cluster, as participants had to cluster all the points before they could move on.

## Analyses

* `clustering-reliability-analysis.ipynb`: Contains the code for the reliability and normality graphs
* `main-analysis.ipynb`: Contains the code for graphs of the individual attributes
* `normality-simulations.ipynb`: Contains the code for the simulation of normal vs random clusters
* `main.py`, `main.scm`: Contains code for visualizing the trials
* `mixed_effects_analysis.R`: Contains the statistical analyses of all hypotheses in the paper

## Other

* `clustering_analysis`: Contains python code for data processing
* `images`: The images generated by the jupyter notebook
